what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another dose if you guys
don't know who I am my name is Nasir I'm
a second year medical student at King's
College London and I make these youtube
videos to try and help you guys through
the application process been a little
while since we talked about something
personal I want to know how you guys
have been how did the be my goal have
you guys gone to any interviews are you
preparing for your interviews let me
know in a comment down below a little
bit about your progression through the
medical school application as for me I
just wrote my first progress test at
King's College University so progress
test is the kind of test that we write
in our second third fourth in 50 years
progress tests are basically where you
get a hundred questions on material that
you have covered and material that you
have not covered so for example now
we've done one semester of my second
year so we've covered about 12.5% of the
material between now and the end of
third years for example on our progress
test yesterday we had a hundred
multiple-choice questions and there were
only seven questions on material we had
covered so literally for the other
ninety plus questions I was just
guessing entirely and that's because we
haven't learned that material yet
that's material that we're going to
learn in our second year and in our
third year and we basically do a very
similar test six times over second and
third year and each time you're supposed
to improve because you will have learned
more of the material and don't ask me
why Kings and other medical schools use
progress tests it doesn't make much
sense to me I was basically guessing
more than 80 questions on that exam but
apparently works apparently there's some
evidence behind it and that's why they
use it and that's also why I'm wearing
this hoodie it's actually my good luck
hoodie that I wear to all of my exams
shout out to the motorbike outside right
now I wear it every single exam I have
to our all of my undergrad and I'm gonna
continue doing it at medical school
anyway let's get into the video that you
guys are actually here for and
continuing the MMI series looking at
more questions for the MMI so today the
MMI question that I'm going to cover is
how do you describe a picture or how do
you communicate a process and this is
often a question that gets asked at MMI
is basically you'll be asked to instruct
someone or tell someone how to do
something or they'll show you a picture
it can be clinical like a wound or let's
say a fracture and a bone or it can be
something totally random and you'll be
asked to communicate and explain what it
is so this question 100% tests
communication skills the interviewers
want to see that you're able to
communicate the idea of the image or
communicate how to go through a process
to another person in a very simple
efficient and understandable way and the
reason that that's important is that
because as a doctor you're going to be
constantly explaining extremely
complicated medical things in lay terms
in simple terms of course when a patient
walks into your hospital they might not
know all the medical terms and jargon
that we as doctors will use and so
you're gonna need to find a simple and
easy way to explain it to them so this
kind of processing skill is very
valuable if you've done any teaching
experience in the past any tutoring any
leading of group work things like that
then this is the time to use those
skills in the MMI interview so I'm gonna
tackle two main things in this video the
first is communicating a process and the
second is describing a picture so
starting off with communicating a
process an example of how this question
can come up an interview is the
interviewer asking you explain to me how
to tie my shoelace without me seeing my
shoelace or without you looking at my
shoes or they might give you a box
that's tied up with a ribbon and say can
you tell me how to open this box or they
will show you a map and they'll ask you
to say how do I get from point A to
point B on this map describe it to me so
I love these questions because it's
super logical you just break it down and
step one step two step three but there's
definitely a couple things that you want
to do along the way to make sure you
score all those points in the interview
okay so let's go for example with the
example of a map and how you get from
point A to point B I'll put up a picture
somewhere here so I can describe it as I
go along
okay so the first thing that you want to
do is ask for consent and make sure the
person is okay with what you are about
to say and do to them so you're gonna
start by saying okay good morning I want
to describe to you how to get from point
A to point B on this map is that okay
with you something along those lines
just to make sure that they're ready for
what's coming and they know the overall
goal and overall mission of what you're
about to do with them so once they said
yes okay please tell me how you want to
start off by describing the big things
you want to start big start general and
move towards specifics at any point in
the communication process you want to
make sure that the person you're
communicating to is following you
they're understanding you and they know
what's going on and a really good way to
keep bringing this back up in the
question is to say were you able to
follow that have you reached this point
is that okay do you understand what I'm
saying is it making sense any kind of
questions like that as you go along just
makes it seem like you're engaging with
the person you're not being a robot and
just saying go up go left go right go
down go left go up you know you want to
make this a communication and
interaction so back to the beginning you
want to ask for consent and then you
want to explain what is going on so I'm
gonna take you through the map from
point A to point B and you want to start
off general so you want to say we're
gonna be moving from the bottom right of
the map to the top left in a north west
direction so you want to start off
general and give an idea of what it is
that you're doing where it is that
you're going and then you want to move
into specifics so you want to say for
example between let's look at the map
that I brought up this is a map of bad I
want to say yeah I think if I'm wrong
don't get mad at me if this is your
hometown by any chance anyway this is a
picture of a map it doesn't matter what
the map is and let's say we're trying to
move from the bottom right where there's
a J to the top left where there is the
intersection of upper Bristol Road and
Moe Lane so I'm gonna say that if the
map is an a4 piece of paper held in
landscape mode we're gonna be moving
from approximately the rightmost edge of
the paper in the middle to the top left
corner approximately in that direction
do you understand the person will say
yeah and I'm like okay great
after that I'm gonna say that generally
we're gonna be walking through some very
large roads past some green spaces with
what appears to be lets say forest or
parks and then we're gonna enter a city
and that's going to be a little bit more
complicated with smaller routes before
we reach our final destination does that
make sense is that okay
blah-blah-blah-blah a person's gonna
agree always and just say yeah yeah yeah
you also want to say to the interviewer
at some point if I explain something in
a way that doesn't make sense to you or
you don't understand what is I'm saying
please feel free to ask me to repeat it
I can say it again or I can say in a
different way and that's a really good
way to show that you're caring you're
listening you want to explain it and
you're just being nice in the
interaction so slowly slowly you would
describe you know there's gonna be three
different paths for you to take from
Jane you want to first take let's say
the one most westward to you let's say
you're facing north you want to take the
West most Road from you so the closest
one to the
of je you're gonna travel down along
that road along hill along Whitcomb and
then you're gonna reach an intersection
you're gonna take your first right -
followed by your first left is that okay
does that make sense
are you following where I am on the path
have you reached you on the map you want
to keep on saying these things to make
sure that they're following what you're
falling there's no point in you saying
okay just go through hill and Whitcomb
and then go right then go left then go
straight once you hit the town make a
left and then a right don't do that
remain calm it doesn't even matter if
you make it to the end or not that's
another important point it doesn't
matter if you finish tying the shoelace
doesn't matter if you finish opening the
box doesn't matter if you make it to the
end destination on the map what matters
is the process along there how you
communicate it and how you explain what
is that you're doing and where it is
that you're going all right I'm getting
a little bit sidetracked let me return
to my notes to make sure I'm telling you
guys all the important info that I
actually want to tell you so yeah I've
written have very basic communication be
really simple calm patient and
understanding an interviewer might throw
in something in there and be like oh I'm
sorry like I don't understand or how do
I get there wait where am I
you just want to be calm don't get mad
at the interviewer obviously just
explain everything simply backtrack
backtrack step by step work backwards
until you're in the same place and then
move forwards again yeah I never get
frustrated always repeat things if they
don't understand go through it twice
three times whatever it is and just keep
explaining it and doing it in a
different way until they can follow okay
finally there's a nursery outside my
window with a lot of kids screaming so
I'm gonna close the door and I'll be
right back the next thing that I want to
say is do not be a robot it is so easy
to just get frustrated and stuck for
shoelaces that's saying you can't just
say make a knot you can't say tie it in
the middle what does that mean to
someone who's never tied shoelaces
before you have to really explain the
process you know hold the rope in your
left hand using your right hand grab the
other end of the rope and make a small
loop and close it in between your thumb
and your pointing finger then take your
right hand grab the shoelace and pass it
in the middle whatever the process is
also reward instructions that are
carried out well you can always say
things like all great well done like I'm
happy you found that part because it was
a bit difficult I'm happy you managed to
get there because it was kind of
complicated any of these small phrases
just make you less of a robot more of a
person and show how you good you are at
communication and inter
personal skills okay I think that's all
I'm gonna say for communicating a
process I'm gonna go into describing a
picture now these things are quite
related they're quite similar and a lot
of the tips for describing process will
apply to describing a picture and vice
versa keep in mind they can give you any
picture so the interview will just hand
you a picture and say describe this
picture to me as if I was not in the
room describe this picture to me as if
I'd never seen it before okay so I'm
gonna pull up a pretty random picture I
know I'm gonna choose a busy shopping
mall so for the shopping mall for
describing a picture you want to start
off really general big-picture what it
is that what is it that you see what is
this a picture of so how do you describe
this picture you say okay this is a
picture of what appears to be an indoor
shopping mall okay and big picture
things general things you want to say in
this picture I can see two floors the
picture is taken from the perspective of
someone on the second floor and the
camera is looking straight ahead but you
can see both the bottom and the top
floors you can say that there are shops
on both the left and right side of the
picture you can see two big columns
going from the first floor to from the
ground floor to the second floor but
basically for these big picture things
you want to say date time time of day
what is the picture about what is it
that you're seeing general general
general big-picture things to paint an
image in the person's head okay and then
you want to move on to specifics a super
bad thing to do in this case would be to
say there is a fragrance shop and
Timpson and a three store and there is a
person wearing a red jumper and next to
him a person wearing a black jumper this
is not what you want to do you want to
start off big start off general and then
work your way down
so once we've said the date the time the
place the big picture what is this we
can move on some of the smaller details
so we can say for example that we see a
lot of people if I was to make a quick
estimate I would say that there are
about maybe somewhere between 25 and 35
people in this picture there are
families with children there are people
walking alone both male and female you
can see that people are wearing jumpers
and jacket so it might be wintertime it
might be cold outside you can say that
on the ground floor on the right-hand
side starting from closest to the person
who took the picture
there's a fragrance shop than a Timpson
and then a shop with a red Sun neon sign
on the left hand side there is a three
storm you want to be super systematic
super simple oh of course I didn't even
mention right in the middle of the
ground floor there is a small smaller
shelf of something what appears to be
jewelry and it's decorations reach up
through the center of the room into the
ceiling whatever you get the point you
can start describing more specific and
more smaller things in the picture a
great way that I practiced for this was
to just walk around my house and sort of
stand in a perspective and say okay this
is what I see in front of me and then
describe it as if someone wasn't there
you want to close your eyes and be able
to imagine what the person is describing
to you so yeah be super clear and
descriptive do not get bogged down in
the details you want to start off by
sending big lines you know like we did
with first floor second floor a column
you know decorations here don't forget
to describe things like color shapes
texture items you know what is it what
is in this photo alright guys I think
that's where I'm gonna wrap it up for
this question we've gone through
communicating a process or describing a
process and then also describing a
picture these are two common things that
come up in MMI interviews they're really
good way for interviewers to assess and
interviewees communication skills and
personal skills and just how good they
are at explaining something so yeah guys
let me know how you guys find that let
me know if you found it useful if you
guys want me to cover any other specific
videos in the future do let me know as
well for example MMI questions covering
ethics MMI questions covering work
experience whatever it is thank you guys
so much for the support if you like this
video make sure to leave a like on the
video subscribe to my channel follow me
on Instagram and all the rest of it and
I'll see you guys in the next video
peace